what via va question and answer  well asked ? for above exp cy lab

Here are important VIVA-VOCE questions and answers for your Cyber Security Lab – Password Cracking (Hashcat & John the Ripper) experiment. Learn these for exam.

1. What is password hashing?

Answer: Password hashing is the process of converting a password into a fixed-length encrypted string using a hash function like MD5 or SHA.

2. What is a hash function?

Answer: A hash function is a mathematical algorithm that converts plain text into a unique fixed-size hash value.

3. What is MD5?

Answer: MD5 is a message digest algorithm that produces a 128-bit hash value and is commonly used for password storage.

4. Why is MD5 not secure today?

Answer: MD5 is vulnerable to collision and brute-force attacks, so it is considered weak.

5. What is Hashcat?

Answer: Hashcat is a fast password cracking tool used to recover passwords from hashes using different attack modes.

6. What is John the Ripper?

Answer: John the Ripper is a password cracking tool used for dictionary, brute-force, and rule-based attacks.

7. What is a dictionary attack?

Answer: A dictionary attack tries passwords from a wordlist like rockyou.txt.

8. What is rockyou.txt?

Answer: It is a popular password wordlist used for cracking weak passwords.

9. What is hash identification?

Answer: The process of finding which algorithm generated the hash (MD5, SHA1, etc.).

10. What is hashid tool?

Answer: A tool used to identify the type of hash.

11. What is the command to crack MD5 using Hashcat?

Answer:
hashcat -m 0 hash.txt rockyou.txt

12. What does -m 0 mean?

Answer: It specifies the hash type as MD5.

13. What is brute force attack?

Answer: Trying all possible character combinations to find the password.

14. What is salting?

Answer: Adding random data to a password before hashing to prevent rainbow table attacks.

15. What are the modes of John the Ripper?

Answer:

Single mode

Wordlist mode

Incremental mode

16. What is Single Crack Mode?

Answer: It generates password variations from username and known words.

17. What is Incremental Mode?

Answer: It performs pure brute-force attack.

18. What is the objective of this experiment?

Answer: To understand password vulnerabilities and demonstrate how weak passwords can be cracked.

19. What is the output of successful cracking?

Answer: The original plaintext password.

20. Why are strong passwords important?

Answer: To protect against dictionary, brute-force, and rainbow table attacks.

If you want, I can also give you XSS lab viva questions or DVWA viva questions in the same format for tomorrow’s exam.

2.Cross-site Scripting.pdf
PDF
same as above

Here are VIVA-VOCE Questions & Answers for your XSS (Cross Site Scripting) experiment in DVWA, same style as before.

1. What is XSS?

Answer: Cross Site Scripting is a web vulnerability where attacker injects malicious JavaScript into a web page.

2. What are the types of XSS?

Answer:

Stored XSS

Reflected XSS

DOM-based XSS

3. What is Stored XSS?

Answer: The script is permanently stored in the database and executed whenever users visit the page.

4. What is Reflected XSS?

Answer: The script is reflected from server in the response and executed immediately.

5. What is DOM-based XSS?

Answer: The attack occurs in the browser by manipulating the DOM without server interaction.

6. What is DVWA?

Answer: Damn Vulnerable Web Application used for practicing web security attacks.

7. What is the basic XSS payload?

Answer:
<script>alert(1)</script>

8. What does alert(1) do?

Answer: It displays a popup showing that JavaScript is executed.

9. What is the objective of this experiment?

Answer: To understand XSS attacks and their impact on web security.

10. What is session hijacking in XSS?

Answer: Stealing cookies using JavaScript like document.cookie.

11. What is input validation?

Answer: Checking user input to block malicious scripts.

12. What is output encoding?

Answer: Converting special characters into safe HTML entities.

13. What is CSP?

Answer: Content Security Policy used to restrict script execution.

14. What is the difference between Stored and Reflected XSS?

Answer: Stored is permanent, Reflected is temporary.

15. Why is XSS dangerous?

Answer: It can steal cookies, redirect users, and perform phishing.

16. What is cookie theft payload?

Answer:
<script>alert(document.cookie)</script>

17. What security levels exist in DVWA?

Answer: Low, Medium, High, Impossible.

18. How to prevent XSS?

Answer: Input validation, output encoding, CSP, secure frameworks.

19. What is DOM?

Answer: Document Object Model representing HTML structure.

20. What happens when XSS is successful?

Answer: Malicious script runs in victim’s browser.

Revise these and you’ll confidently answer Cyber Security Lab Viva.

3.Insecure Direct Object Reference(IDOR).pdf
PDF
same 

Here are VIVA-VOCE Questions & Answers for IDOR (Insecure Direct Object Reference) – same pattern as previous.

1. What is IDOR?

Answer: IDOR is a vulnerability where an attacker can access other users’ data by changing object IDs in URL or parameters.

2. Full form of IDOR?

Answer: Insecure Direct Object Reference.

3. What is the objective of this experiment?

Answer: To identify and exploit IDOR vulnerabilities and understand access control issues.

4. What tools are used?

Answer: Burp Suite, DVWA, and web browser.

5. How does IDOR occur?

Answer: When application does not check authorization for object access.

6. Give an example of IDOR.

Answer:
Changing user_id=101 to user_id=102 in URL to view another user’s data.

7. What is authorization bypass?

Answer: Accessing restricted data without permission.

8. What is Burp Suite used for?

Answer: Intercepting and modifying HTTP requests.

9. What is a parameter tampering?

Answer: Modifying request parameters to gain unauthorized access.

10. What is UID?

Answer: Unique Identifier of a user or object.

11. Why is IDOR dangerous?

Answer: It exposes sensitive data like personal info and account details.

12. What is RBAC?

Answer: Role Based Access Control.

13. What is UUID?

Answer: Universally Unique Identifier used instead of simple IDs.

14. How to prevent IDOR?

Answer:

Proper access control

Use UUID

Validate user ownership

Server-side authorization

15. What is authentication vs authorization?

Answer:
Authentication = who you are
Authorization = what you can access

16. What is DVWA?

Answer: Damn Vulnerable Web Application.

17. What is object reference?

Answer: A pointer to database record like user ID, file ID.

18. What is access control?

Answer: Restricting users from unauthorized resources.

19. What happens in low security level in DVWA?

Answer: No access check is performed.

20. What is the result of successful IDOR attack?

Answer: Unauthorized data disclosure.

Now you have Viva Q&A for:
✔ Password Cracking
✔ XSS
✔ IDOR

Say next and I’ll give for SQL Injection / CSRF / File Upload also.

4.File Upload Vulnerabilities.pdf
PDF
same 

Here are VIVA-VOCE Questions & Answers for File Upload Vulnerability (same style as before):

1. What is File Upload Vulnerability?

Answer: It is a security flaw where an attacker uploads malicious files to a server due to improper validation.

2. What is the objective of this experiment?

Answer: To understand the risks of insecure file upload and how attackers exploit it.

3. What tools are used?

Answer: DVWA and Burp Suite.

4. What is a Web Shell?

Answer: A malicious script that allows remote command execution on the server.

5. Why is file type validation important?

Answer: To prevent uploading executable scripts like PHP.

6. What happens in Low Security level?

Answer: Any file type can be uploaded without restriction.

7. What is Content-Type manipulation?

Answer: Changing MIME type to bypass file filters.

8. What is MIME type?

Answer: It tells the browser the file type (e.g., image/jpeg).

9. What is Remote Code Execution (RCE)?

Answer: Running attacker’s commands on the server.

10. Why is .php file dangerous?

Answer: It can execute server-side commands.

11. What is Burp Repeater?

Answer: A tool to modify and resend intercepted requests.

12. What is file extension bypass?

Answer: Renaming malicious files like shell.php.jpg.

13. What is the impact of file upload attack?

Answer: Server takeover, data theft, malware spread.

14. How to prevent file upload vulnerability?

Answer:

Whitelist extensions

Check MIME type

Disable execution

Store files outside web root

15. What is DVWA?

Answer: Damn Vulnerable Web Application for security practice.

16. What is DoS in file upload?

Answer: Uploading large files to crash server.

17. What is secure file storage?

Answer: Storing uploads in non-executable directories.

18. What is Content-Disposition header?

Answer: It defines file name and form data in HTTP.

19. Why is High security level harder?

Answer: It validates file extension and content.

20. What is the final result of successful attack?

Answer: Attacker gets command shell on server.

Now you have viva ready for:

✔ Password Cracking
✔ XSS
✔ IDOR
✔ File Upload Vulnerability

5.Command Injection.pdf
PDF
same

Here are VIVA-VOCE Questions & Answers for Command Injection (same format):

1. What is Command Injection?

Answer: It is a vulnerability where an attacker executes system commands through a web application.

2. What is the objective of this experiment?

Answer: To understand how attackers inject and execute OS commands.

3. What tools are used?

Answer: DVWA and Burp Suite.

4. What is OS Command Injection?

Answer: Injecting operating system commands via user input.

5. Give an example of command injection payload.

Answer:
127.0.0.1; ls
127.0.0.1 && whoami

6. What does ; or && do?

Answer: They chain multiple commands.

7. What is shell_exec()?

Answer: A PHP function that executes system commands.

8. What is the vulnerable input field in DVWA?

Answer: IP address field used for ping.

9. What is ping command?

Answer: A network command to check host reachability.

10. What is arbitrary command execution?

Answer: Running any command chosen by attacker.

11. What is privilege escalation?

Answer: Gaining higher-level access than permitted.

12. What happens in low security level?

Answer: No input validation is applied.

13. What is input sanitization?

Answer: Removing dangerous characters from input.

14. What is parameterized command?

Answer: Commands executed safely without concatenation.

15. What is the impact of command injection?

Answer: Data theft, server takeover, system compromise.

16. What is the difference between XSS and Command Injection?

Answer: XSS runs in browser, Command Injection runs on server.

17. What is escaping?

Answer: Neutralizing special characters.

18. What is least privilege principle?

Answer: Giving minimum permissions to applications.

19. What is mitigation for this attack?

Answer: Input validation, whitelisting, secure APIs.

20. What is the final result of successful attack?

Answer: Attacker gains shell access on server.

Now your viva coverage includes:

✔ Password Cracking
✔ XSS
✔ IDOR
✔ File Upload
✔ Command Injection





6.MITM attack.pdf
PDF
same

Here are VIVA-VOCE Questions & Answers for Man-in-the-Middle (MITM) Attack – same style as before:

1. What is a MITM attack?

Answer: A Man-in-the-Middle attack is when an attacker secretly intercepts communication between two users.

2. What is the objective of this experiment?

Answer: To understand how network traffic can be intercepted and credentials captured.

3. What tools are used?

Answer: Wireshark and Ettercap.

4. What is packet sniffing?

Answer: Capturing and analyzing network packets.

5. What is ARP poisoning?

Answer: Sending fake ARP messages to redirect traffic to attacker.

6. What is Wireshark?

Answer: A network protocol analyzer used to capture packets.

7. What is Ettercap?

Answer: A tool for performing MITM attacks using ARP spoofing.

8. What is a victim machine?

Answer: The system whose data is intercepted.

9. What is a gateway in MITM?

Answer: Router through which traffic passes.

10. What is HTTP POST?

Answer: A method used to send login credentials.

11. What is SSL stripping?

Answer: Downgrading HTTPS to HTTP to capture data.

12. What is DNS spoofing?

Answer: Redirecting traffic to fake websites.

13. What is session hijacking?

Answer: Stealing session cookies to access user account.

14. What is interception?

Answer: Capturing data between sender and receiver.

15. What is eavesdropping?

Answer: Listening to private communication.

16. What is credential sniffing?

Answer: Capturing username and password.

17. What is display filter in Wireshark?

Answer: Used to filter packets like http.request.method == POST.

18. What is unified sniffing?

Answer: Monitoring all traffic on an interface.

19. How to prevent MITM?

Answer: Use HTTPS, VPN, encrypted Wi-Fi, certificate validation.

20. What is the impact of MITM attack?

Answer: Data theft, account compromise, message modification.

Now you have full viva coverage for:

✔ Password Cracking
✔ XSS
✔ IDOR
✔ File Upload
✔ Command Injection
✔ MITM Attack

Say same again and I’ll give SQL Injection viva.








7.Privilege Escalation.pdf
PDF
same

Here are VIVA-VOCE Questions & Answers for Privilege Escalation (same pattern):

1. What is Privilege Escalation?

Answer: It is the process of gaining higher access rights than intended, like user to admin/root.

2. What is the objective of this experiment?

Answer: To understand how attackers gain administrator/system privileges.

3. What are the types of Privilege Escalation?

Answer:

Vertical

Horizontal

4. What is Vertical Privilege Escalation?

Answer: Gaining higher-level privileges (user → admin/root).

5. What is Horizontal Privilege Escalation?

Answer: Accessing another user’s data with same privilege level.

6. What tools are used?

Answer: Metasploit, Kali Linux, Windows VM.

7. What is Meterpreter?

Answer: A powerful payload in Metasploit for post-exploitation.

8. What is UAC bypass?

Answer: Bypassing Windows User Account Control to get admin rights.

9. What is SYSTEM privilege?

Answer: Highest privilege in Windows OS.

10. What is kernel exploit?

Answer: Exploiting OS kernel vulnerability to gain root access.

11. What is SUID?

Answer: A Linux permission that allows execution as file owner.

12. What is misconfigured sudo?

Answer: Allowing users to run root commands without password.

13. What is DLL hijacking?

Answer: Loading malicious DLL to execute with higher privilege.

14. What is token impersonation?

Answer: Stealing another user’s access token.

15. What is least privilege principle?

Answer: Users should have minimum required permissions.

16. What is privilege escalation impact?

Answer: Full system compromise.

17. What is Metasploit handler?

Answer: Listener for reverse shell connections.

18. What is getuid command?

Answer: Shows current user privilege.

19. How to prevent privilege escalation?

Answer:

Patch systems

Strong permissions

MFA

Monitor logs

20. What is the final result of successful escalation?

Answer: Attacker becomes Administrator or Root.

Now your Cyber Security Lab Viva is fully covered:

✔ Password Cracking
✔ XSS
✔ IDOR
✔ File Upload
✔ Command Injection
✔ MITM
✔ Privilege Escalation

Say same again if you want SQL Injection or CSRF viva too.






9. XML External Entity(XXE) Injection.pdf
PDF
same

Here are VIVA-VOCE Questions & Answers for XML External Entity (XXE) Injection – same pattern as before:

1. What is XXE?

Answer: XXE is a vulnerability where an attacker exploits XML parser to read internal files or perform SSRF.

2. Full form of XXE?

Answer: XML External Entity.

3. What is the objective of this experiment?

Answer: To understand how XML parsers can be exploited to access server files.

4. What tools are used?

Answer: Burp Suite and a vulnerable XML-based web application.

5. What is an external entity?

Answer: A reference in XML that loads data from external sources.

6. Give an example of XXE payload.

Answer:

<!DOCTYPE test [ <!ENTITY xxe SYSTEM "file:///etc/passwd"> ]>

7. What does &xxe; do?

Answer: It fetches and displays the content of the external file.

8. What file is commonly accessed in Linux XXE?

Answer: /etc/passwd

9. What is SSRF in XXE?

Answer: Server Side Request Forgery using XML entities.

10. What is Blind XXE?

Answer: XXE where data is sent to attacker server instead of being displayed.

11. What is Burp Repeater?

Answer: Tool to modify and resend intercepted requests.

12. What is DOCTYPE in XML?

Answer: It defines document type and external entities.

13. Why is XXE dangerous?

Answer: It can read files, perform SSRF, and cause DoS.

14. What is XML parser?

Answer: A program that processes XML data.

15. What security level allows easy XXE?

Answer: Low security level or misconfigured parser.

16. What is entity expansion attack?

Answer: Causing DoS by large recursive entities.

17. How to prevent XXE?

Answer: Disable external entities and use secure XML parsers.

18. What is defusedxml?

Answer: A secure XML parsing library.

19. What is WAF?

Answer: Web Application Firewall.

20. What is the result of successful XXE attack?

Answer: Sensitive file disclosure or internal system access.

Now your viva topics covered:

✔ Password Cracking
✔ XSS
✔ IDOR
✔ File Upload
✔ Command Injection
✔ MITM
✔ Privilege Escalation
✔ XXE Injection




10.Session Hijacking and Fixation.pdf
PDF
same

Here are VIVA-VOCE Questions & Answers for Session Hijacking and Session Fixation – same pattern:

1. What is Session Hijacking?

Answer: It is an attack where an attacker steals a valid session ID to impersonate a user.

2. What is Session Fixation?

Answer: It is an attack where attacker forces a known session ID on a victim.

3. What is the objective of this experiment?

Answer: To understand how attackers take control of user sessions.

4. What tools are used?

Answer: DVWA, Burp Suite, Browser.

5. What is a Session ID?

Answer: A unique token used to identify a logged-in user.

6. Where is session ID stored?

Answer: In cookies or URL.

7. What is PHPSESSID?

Answer: Default session cookie in PHP.

8. What is Cookie?

Answer: Small data stored in browser for session tracking.

9. How does Session Hijacking occur?

Answer: By stealing cookies using XSS, sniffing, or MITM.

10. What is FoxyProxy?

Answer: A browser proxy switcher for Burp Suite.

11. What is Burp Intercept?

Answer: Captures HTTP requests.

12. What is Authorization Bypass?

Answer: Accessing resources without proper permission.

13. What is HTTPS role?

Answer: Encrypts session data.

14. What is Secure flag in cookie?

Answer: Prevents cookie over HTTP.

15. What is HttpOnly flag?

Answer: Prevents JavaScript access to cookies.

16. What is SameSite attribute?

Answer: Prevents CSRF attacks.

17. What is Session Timeout?

Answer: Automatic session expiry.

18. What is Impact of Session Hijacking?

Answer: Account takeover.

19. How to prevent Session Hijacking?

Answer:

HTTPS

Secure cookies

Regenerate session ID

Logout properly

20. What is final result of successful attack?

Answer: Attacker logs in as victim without password.

Now your full lab viva set includes:

✔ Password Cracking
✔ XSS
✔ IDOR
✔ File Upload
✔ Command Injection
✔ MITM
✔ Privilege Escalation
✔ XXE
✔ Session Hijacking & Fixation





11.Digital Forensics-Autopsy.pdf
PDF
same

Here are VIVA-VOCE Questions & Answers for Digital Forensics using Autopsy – same pattern as earlier labs:

1. What is Digital Forensics?

Answer: Digital forensics is the process of collecting, preserving, analyzing, and presenting digital evidence.

2. What is the objective of this experiment?

Answer: To learn how to investigate digital evidence using forensic tools.

3. What is Autopsy?

Answer: Autopsy is an open-source digital forensics tool used to analyze disk images and recover data.

4. What is FTK Imager?

Answer: A tool used to create forensic images of storage devices.

5. What is a Disk Image?

Answer: An exact bit-by-bit copy of a storage device.

6. What is Evidence Integrity?

Answer: Ensuring evidence is not altered during investigation.

7. What is Hash Value?

Answer: A digital fingerprint used to verify file integrity.

8. What is MD5 / SHA?

Answer: Cryptographic hash algorithms.

9. What is Ingest Module in Autopsy?

Answer: A component that analyzes data for artifacts.

10. What is File Carving?

Answer: Recovering deleted files from unallocated space.

11. What is Timeline Analysis?

Answer: Viewing events based on time sequence.

12. What is Metadata?

Answer: Information about files like creation time and location.

13. What is EXIF Data?

Answer: Metadata stored in images.

14. What is Keyword Search?

Answer: Searching for specific words in disk data.

15. What is Deleted File Recovery?

Answer: Retrieving files removed from the system.

16. What is Registry Analysis?

Answer: Examining Windows registry for user activity.

17. What is Chain of Custody?

Answer: Documentation of evidence handling.

18. What is Report Generation?

Answer: Creating investigation report from findings.

19. Why is Digital Forensics Important?

Answer: To solve cyber crimes and support legal cases.

20. What is the final outcome of the experiment?

Answer: Extraction and analysis of digital evidence.

Now your viva coverage includes:

✔ Password Cracking
✔ XSS
✔ IDOR
✔ File Upload
✔ Command Injection
✔ MITM
✔ Privilege Escalation
✔ XXE
✔ Session Hijacking
✔ Digital Forensics (Autopsy)





12.Acquisition of Mobile Data.pdf
PDF
same

Here are VIVA-VOCE Questions & Answers for Acquisition of Mobile Data using ADB – same pattern:

1. What is Mobile Data Acquisition?

Answer: It is the process of collecting data from mobile devices for analysis and investigation.

2. What is the objective of this experiment?

Answer: To learn how to extract data from an Android device using ADB.

3. What is ADB?

Answer: Android Debug Bridge is a command-line tool to communicate with Android devices.

4. What is USB Debugging?

Answer: A mode that allows ADB to access the Android system.

5. Where is Developer Mode enabled?

Answer: In Settings → About Phone → Tap Build Number 7 times.

6. What is the command to check connected devices?

Answer: adb devices

7. What does "unauthorized" mean in adb devices?

Answer: USB debugging permission is not granted on the phone.

8. What is MTP mode?

Answer: Media Transfer Protocol for file access.

9. What is adb pull?

Answer: Command used to copy files from mobile to PC.

10. What directory stores photos?

Answer: /sdcard/DCIM

11. Command to copy photos?

Answer: adb pull /sdcard/DCIM

12. What is adb shell?

Answer: It provides command-line access to Android OS.

13. What is getprop?

Answer: Displays device properties like model and OS version.

14. What is SD card acquisition?

Answer: Copying complete internal/external storage.

15. What is wireless ADB?

Answer: Connecting to device over Wi-Fi using IP.

16. What port does ADB use?

Answer: Port 5555.

17. What is forensic importance of ADB?

Answer: Helps extract evidence without modifying data.

18. What is data integrity?

Answer: Ensuring extracted data is not altered.

19. What type of data can be acquired?

Answer: Photos, videos, documents, logs, app data.

20. What is the final result of the experiment?

Answer: Successful extraction of mobile data to system.
